SUDOKU SOLVER
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/MriNywwQp-8
#### Description: I created a sudoku solver by using a backtracking algorithm. This algorithm tries every possibility until finds a a way to complete the entire sudoku. In my project, I represented my sudoku with a 2D array and put a default one on the screen as an example to not tire the user in case the user does not have a sudoku example. In the sudoku, 2D array, I represented empty cells with 0, and the rest of it with digits from 1 to 9. My project starts checking for empty cells starting from the top left corner and going until the right bottom corner. If it finds an empty cell, it checks for all the valid possibilities for that specific cell by checking all the digits within the same row, column, and subgrid. All the digits found within them will be eliminated, and the digits unused will be valid possibilities. From all the possibilities, the algorithm will choose the lowest digit, and move on to the next empty cell, and repeat the same process. This process will repeat until two outcomes: there are no more empty cells left and we solved the sudoku, or there are no valid possible moves for an empty cell. The first outcome means we succeeded, and there is nothing else to do. However, the second outcome means we tried a wrong digit somewhere and we need to try a different valid digit. In this case, the algorithm will go back to the last empty cell it filled, and replace the digit with one higher possible digit. It will keep going back and forth, trying all the possibilities until it finds a way to solve the sudoku. If there are no more possibilities to try, it will leave the sudoku unchanged. In this part, I could make an improvement and display a message saying that no possible solution is found. I used Pygame to display the sudoku. I placed two buttons on the screen; one to solve the sudoku and one to clean the sudoku. Users can edit the sudoku by clicking on the cell they want to change, and clicking on the digit they want to place. There are more improvements that can be made to this project. I could check for the empty cells with only one valid possibility to fill them first before starting the algorithm. This could speed up the process by removing a part of trials in applicable situations. Additionally, I could warn the user if the user tries to enter the same digit within the same row, column, or subgrid since it will make the sudoku unsolvable. I could make the display more attractive by using different colors and more interactive. I could use an API to pull different sudoku examples and let users try to solve them. I could make the cell green if they enter the right digit, and red if they enter an incorrect one. This is only the first version of my project. I will later come back and apply these improvements to my project.
